## Identification of conserved noncoding regions

After the execution of PhastCons, hundreds of thousands of conserved regions are identified. Therefore, it is necessary to process these results to identify conserved noncoding sequences (CNS). Moreover, in this study, we aimed to identify CNS specifically detected in the nitrogen-fixing clade. Also, by using RNA-seq and ATAC-seq data, select CNS that may be functionally relevant for the regulation of genes that are essential for root nodule symbiosis. These steps were implemented using Snakemake, and their execution is straightforward.

Nonetheless, a diversity of files are expected to be present in the same directory as the execution is initiated, including the PhastCons outputs. Below we list the required files and their sources. Note that some of the files were generated in-house. In these cases, we provide the file and point to the script(s) necessary to regenerate it (stored in the folder *accessory_scripts*).

### Required files

1 - Files generated by in the PhastCons analysis:

* *all_Nfix.all.bed* - All conserved regions identified in the NFC group whose length is equal or larger to 5 base pairs
* *outside.all.bed* - All conserved regions identified in the Outgroup group whose length is equal or larger to 5 base pairs


2 - Annotation files of [*Medicago truncatula* genome](https://medicago.toulouse.inra.fr/MtrunA17r5.0-ANR/) version 5 (Annotation v.1.7):

* *MtrunA17r5.0-20161119-ANR.fasta* - Fasta file
* *MtrunA17r5.0-ANR-EGN-r1.7_ncRNAs.gff3* - Noncoding RNAs
* *MtrunA17r5.0-20161119-ANR_tephra_transposons_v1.1.locus_tags.20171205.fix.gff3* - Transposons
* *MtrunA17r5.0-ANR-EGN-r1.7.vs.JCVI-Mt4.0v2-gene.tsv* - ID mapping between v5 and v4


3 - Orthologous annotation from [PLAZADB (dicots v4)](https://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/plaza/versions/plaza_v4_dicots/download/index)

* *integrative_orthology.ORTHO.csv*


4 - Code from the [forward genomics method](https://github.com/hillerlab/ForwardGenomics) that was repurposed for a small section of the analysis:

* *Maf2SpanningSeq_PRANK.perl*
* *Globals.pm*
* *MyBDB.pm*
* *MyKentFunctions.pm*

5 - List of accession numbers of *viridiplantae* species on NCBI

* *viridiplantae.txids* - Obtained (Jun 2021) using nbci_blast+ as below:

```shell
get_species_taxids.sh -t 33090 > viridiplantae.txids
```

6 - List of genes involved in root nodule symbiosis as gathered from multiple sources

* *nodulation_genes_medicago.csv* (Available in this repository)

7 - Couple of binaries from Kent tools

* *mafExtract* (Copy available in this repository)
* *mafIndex* (Copy available in this repository)

8 - Annotation (v.2.1) of [*G. max* genome from NCBI](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/assembly/GCF_000004515.5/)

* *GCF_000004515.5_Glycine_max_v2.1_genomic.gff*
